The internet is an open, public system
with a lot of data flowing through it.
Even though we all send and
store information online,
there's some information that
we choose to keep private.
In security, this type of data is known
as personally identifiable information.
Personally identifiable information, or
PII,
is any information that can be used
to infer an individual's identity.
This can include things like
someone's name, medical and financial
information, photos,
emails, or fingerprints.
Maintaining the privacy of
PII online is difficult.
It takes the right security
controls to do so.
One of the main security
controls used to protect
information online is cryptography.
Cryptography is the process of
transforming information into a form that
unintended readers can't understand.
Data of any kind is kept secret
using a two-step process:
encryption to hide the information,
and decryption to unhide it.
Imagine sending an email to a friend.
The process starts by taking
data in its original and
readable form, known as plaintext.
Encryption takes that information and
scrambles it into an unreadable
form, known as ciphertext.
We then use decryption to unscramble
the ciphertext back into plaintext form,
making it readable again.
Hiding and unhiding private information
is a practice that's been around for a long time.
Way before computers!
One of the earliest cryptographic
methods is known as Caesar's cipher.
This method is named after
a Roman general, Julius Caesar,
who ruled the Roman empire near
the end of the first century BC.
He used it to keep messages between
him and his military generals private.
Caesar's cipher is a pretty simple algorithm
that works by shifting letters in
the Roman alphabet forward
by a fixed number of spaces.
An algorithm is a set of
rules that solve a problem.
Specifically in cryptography, a cipher is
an algorithm that encrypts information.
For example, a message encoded with
Caesar's cipher using a shift of 3 would encode
an A as a D, a B as an E,
a C as an F, and so on.
In this example, you could send
a friend a message that said, "hello"
using a shift of 3, and
it would read "khoor."
Now, you might be wondering how would
you know the shift a message encrypted with
Caesar's cipher is using.
The answer to that is, you need the key!
A cryptographic key is a mechanism
that decrypts ciphertext.
In our example, the key would tell you
that my message is encrypted by 3 shifts.
With that information, you
can unlock the hidden message!
Every form of encryption
relies on both a cipher and
key to secure the exchange of information.
Caesar's cipher is not widely used today
because of a couple of major flaws.
One concerns the cipher itself.
The other relates to the key.
This particular cipher relies entirely on
the characters of the Roman alphabet to hide
information.
For example, consider a message written
using the English alphabet, which is only 26
characters.
Even without the key, it's pretty simple
to crack a message secured with
Caesar's cipher by shifting
letters 26 different ways.
In information security, this tactic
is known as brute force attack,
a trial-and-error process of
discovering private information.
The other major flaw of Caesar's cipher
is that it relies on a single key.
If that key was lost or stolen,
there's nothing stopping someone
from accessing private information.
Properly keeping track of cryptographic
keys is an important part of security.
To start, it's important to ensure that
these keys are not stored in public places,
and to share them separately
from the information they will decrypt.
Caesar's cipher is just one of many
algorithms used to protect people's
privacy.
Due to its limitations,
we rely on more complex algorithms
to secure information online.
Our next focus is exploring
how modern algorithms
work to keep information private.